---
title: A Finale Much Overdue
author: Levi Seegmiller
date: 2026-07-21T10:00:00Z
description:  A long overdue conclusion to my time spent in Squamish, British Columbia.
  - travel
---


## Howdy Aidan,

Time is funny. One day, it’s June 3rd, and you’re all excited about sending your buddy your latest write-up about a very fun trip you’re on. Then, it’s July 21st, and you’re having to reread said write-up to even remember where you left off, sending legions of lantern-toating scouting regiments to find what you were going to say next in the foggy, forgotten recess of your brain it took refuge in. So, while there was once much to say about the tail end of that excursion, due to the wicked humor of Father Time, and an attempt to, for the love of God, just move on for once, this entry may be shorter than the last.

I believe I last left off on the day of Sophia and Toinon’s multi-pitch expedition. I am happy to report they made it back alive, limbs still attached to the correct snapping points, all smiles. They recounted their experience to me over a very tasty spicy salmon bowl. The last pitch was a heady 5.7 free-solo, so they sure had an exciting day. Overhearing our conversation, an older man, either at the tail end of his middle ages or just embarking on his elderly years, dropped the bomb that he used to let Fred Beckey sleep on his couch. Crazy. Such a treat to have one degree of separation from the (somewhat melancholic) legend.

We spent the rest of the day lounging in a park, co-authoring stories about pronoun-conscious crows, bazookas, and fish grandmas and writing a rap that had a rubber chicken where the flow should have been.

The next day, or perhaps the day after, was Sophia and my revenge tour. First stop: Worm World Cave. I’m not sure if you remember this one, because my last entry was back in the Paleozoic Era, but it’s the V9 that James flashed. The rock felt quite a bit sweatier that day, but with more skin and far better tactics, I was able to just barely eke out a send. I nearly slipped off the final jug, but was able to reel it in thanks to pure desperation and desire. We then tried a beautiful looking V11, whose name escapes me. Great moves, small holds, technical. Toinon almost did it a number of times, but it was just too damn hot.

Next on the docket was the Room, where Sophia would try Room Service, the V12 she had tried before. “Try” is not really an apt word because we rolled up to the boulder, built out the pads, Soph gave it a rip, rested, put on some bumpin’ Latin tunes, and sent second go. I was, at once, unsurprised and bubbling over with joy. She is so damn good at this game. All in all, a very successful revenge day.

That day was probably the climax of our adventure, but there were cool things still to come. Soph sent the Egg on her second session, an ultra-classic Chris Sharma V11 that you’ve probably seen in Rampage. We did some more easies, hung out with friends, slacklined, and went to a slab called Black Slabbath, a V7 micro-crimper bursting out of an otherwise moss-covered boulder. Sophia and Toinon both sent first session. I made good progress, and returned on my last day of the trip, but couldn’t quite put it down. I made it up to the crux multiple times, though, and learned a lot on it. It got me stoked on slab, which I once thought an impossible task. It gets pretty heady at the top, and you have to stay focused the whole time, so it’s almost more of a mental challenge than a physical one, as most slabs are.

Eventually, Sophia had to leave, and after dropping her off at the airport and returning to the campground, I laid in my tent staring at the ceiling for the better part of an hour. A strange depression had overcome me; I was still in this beautiful, inspiring place, but the friends I had been sharing it with were both gone, and it was all coming to an end soon. I decided, however, that the last day and a half I had left would not be spent letting the moss grow over me in classic moss fashion. I decided to go to Fox & Oak to make a battle plan. There, I ran into Kenny, a van-lifer we had made friends with. We chatted while sipping coffee, and that made me feel quite a bit better about the whole situation. My closest friends were gone, but I wasn’t alone. He’s from Oregon, but he’s been all over the United States during one road trip or another. Cool guy.

I spent the rest of that day climbing around. I did a lovely V6 called The Land That Time Forgot, and made some good progress on an adjacent V10 called Plutonia. Then I walked around the Chief boulders a bit before going to get a doner, which is apparently a very popular food in the Vancouver area. It was just okay.

And that basically wraps up the trip! I skipped a few bits in this last entry, for reasons I stated above, but these were the highlights. I learned a lot about myself as a climber in Squamish. My mental game improved more during those two weeks than in the entirety of my climbing career. I also learned that the next frontier of improvement for me is surely technique. I’m going to mix in strength and finger training, of course, but I have begun climbing more intentionally during my sessions, focusing much more on how I’m moving my body, not just how I’m grabbing the holds. Exciting stuff.

Now I can finally start writing about other things. This was a loose thread that needed a good snipping before I could move on. So prepare thyself good sir, more mediocre shit your way comes.

I hope everything is going well in New Mexico. Your scuba diving pictures were incredible; it looks like y’all had a good time in Hawaii. And I’m very excited to begin this Dungeons & Dragons campaign. I haven’t played in like five years, and I’m chomping at the bit. The combined power of all of my autistic tendencies are pouring into it.
