---
title: First Days in Squamish
author: Levi Seegmiller
date: 2026-05-29T10:00:00Z
description: A recount of the first few days of my longest climbing trip ever. Includes close encounters of all kinds. 
tags:
  - travel
---

## Howdy Aidan,

I’m not really sure how to start this since we’ve only been in Squamish for a couple of days and I’ve only been on a handful of boulders, but I find myself at a coffee shop so James and Soph can attend to academic obligations and it seems right to fit some writing in. It’s been an action packed couple of days, though, and two days of travel preceded them, so there’s plenty to discuss.

Let’s start with the travel.

Despite all existing laws of the universe, James and I left the house, car fully packed with gear, tummies fully packed with toast, at 8 AM. Yes God, you heard that right: JAMES AND LEVI LEFT THE HOUSE BEFORE 10 AM. Tell all your friends, shout it from the rooftops, whatever you like. I was pleasantly astounded. It was generally uneventful, but I will proudly say I drove eight and a half hours nearly nonstop, which gives me hope for my solo trek back to Salt Lake (or Slake as Sophia’s friend, Roger, calls it, something I thought you’d get a kick out of). And I felt like I could’ve driven more.

James drove the remaining four-ish hours to Elle-Rose and Johnny’s apartment. They were gracious enough to let us stay the night with only 2 hours notice. As I struggled to find a free, no-reservation-required campground, James had a transcendent moment of clarity and remembered they now live in Issaquah, which sits near Seattle. Funnily enough, they were on their way back from Squamish when James called them.

I know you’ve said Washington gives you depression, but I think Issaquah would change your mind. It’s gorgeous. A low-hanging fog and leaves, proudly green, protruding from dark trunks, gave it an enchanted forest feel. Very Twilight. We had a good chat with Elle-Rose and Johnny for an hour or so before going to bed. In the morning, I walked over to the neighboring salmon hatchery while James did some homework. Sophia’s flight didn’t reach Vancouver until 3, so we had time to kill. I saw a great blue heron and plenty of little salmon fry (or parr, I still don’t really know the distinction), and I read plenty of interactive plaques about the salmon life cycle and their role in the larger river ecosystem. You would’ve had a field day there. I spinned a wheel to see if I would survive as a salmon, ended up getting eaten by a perch, and went back to check on James. We left soon after.

The drive from Issaquah to Vancouver is beautiful, even though you drive through a major city. Seattle, hidden in the dense forest, comes out of nowhere as you round a bend. Past Seattle, you drive on a smaller highway that reminded me of the rural highways in Tennessee (God, do I miss it).

We soon arrived at the border crossing, which ended up being pretty chill. Our border patrol officer, a sexy Asian man with forearm tattoos, was acting all serious, but he seemed like a cool guy. We tried hard to push the fact that we were just psyched climbers and we got through without trouble. The officer was asking me where I’m from, where I’m going to stay, like just ask for my number dude, seriously. 

Soph’s flight got delayed, so we had more time to kill. We ate some bomb chicken at this place called Nando’s and then walked around a beautiful nature park. Like seriously beautiful. It was covered in moss and mushrooms, and birdsong enveloped us as we walked the paths. There were wild rats, too, which I didn’t know existed outside of sewers, garbage bins, and dark alleyways, mentoring turtles and doing karate.

We eventually picked up Soph, drove through Vancouver, a beautiful city, and made our way to Squamish. We checked into our campsite and expeditiously drove to the boulders to do some climbing before it got dark. We went to the boulders at the base of the Chief, and it was dense in every sense of the word. Dense with boulders, dense with trees, dense with moss, but surprisingly not dense with climbers. It reminded me of Stone Fort in terms of denseness, except Stone Fort is crawling with human bodies. I know it’s not peak season, but I was surprised by how few people there were. Soph and I did a dumpy VB thing as our first climb, barefoot so as to not get our climbing shoes wet. Then we went over to Superfly, a fun V4 that also happens to be the most sent boulder in Squamish (according to Kaya). It’s also the home of the newly returned legend, Portable. I was surprised by how hard it is. I’m just way too long for the poor guy. I had to heel hook a little crimp on the side to even establish, and then after that it was fine. It got dark, we went back to camp, made some maccers and brocc (macaroni and cheese with broccoli, a Sophism), chatted with Toinon, and went to sleep. 

The next day was a bit of an adventure. As I walked over to the sinks to brush my teeth, I turned a corner and came face-to-face (an exaggeration) with a little black bear. It turned into the woods, towards the tents, and I hurried back to our camp to deter it from nibbling on the slumbering Sophia and James. It ambled away, surely barely noticing my presence, and walked deeper into the woods. Perhaps my closest encounter with a bear, a fun, albeit slightly stressful, experience. That’s something I’ve noticed here is that it’s so easy to feel close to the nonhuman realm just by existing. Even in the city, you’re surrounded by mountains on all sides and leaves brush your head as you walk down the street. Sophia even saw a second bear trying to break into someone’s yard. It truly is beautiful here. I’m feeling fully immersed so far. It’s addicting.

Our original plan that day was to meet up with Eli at a crag called Paradise Wall, but some of his plans changed, and we got lost, so we fucked off to Majestic with Roger. When we got there, the tide was low enough to be scary, so we decided to shave our heads. James and I both got buzzes from Sophia, and James gave Roger a fade (which actually turned out really nice). Evidently, we took too long and got a bit too distracted because the tide rose to the point where we couldn’t get to the start jug without a paddleboard. 

This didn’t stop James from trying, though. Like a dolphin, he exploded out of the water and caught the jug with one arm. Climbing barefoot (mostly campusing), he climbed up to the lip, but fell due to wet feet. I guess it’s much better with climbing shoes. So we fucked off again to this area called the Farm to try a V9 called Resurrection.

We got there, warmed up on some easies: a V1 (stout) called Detached Flake (not as scary as it sounds), a V5 (very fun) called Space Monkey, and a V6 (very very fun) called Cradle Robber Light. One thing I’ve learned about Squamish is that they love their eliminates and link-ups, even more than the folks in Little Cottonwood. It’s called Cradle Robber Light because it’s basically just this V8 called Cradle Robber, but using an extra hold. The ‘light’ version seems way more obvious to me, but whatever.

Then we made our way to Resurrection where a little crowd had formed, using two small Black Diamonds to pad the high-ball landing. We quickly contributed our pads. I want to emphasize that this thing is awesome. It’s tall, has really nice holds, and splendid movement. It’s also just gorgeous. The only detractor was that it was around 80 degrees and humid that day. Still, Sophia bossed up and did it in three goes. Inspiring. I made some good progress on it, making it to the crux quite a few times, but decided to save my skin and come back on a day where it might actually be possible for me. I’ll definitely be going back to it. 

We had some bomb Indian food, yapped at camp, and went to bed. 

So here I am, typing away at a coffee shop that must have some kind of specialized magnet for attracting climbers. A bunch of the dirtbag crew is here, including Roger and this guy named Thomas who Sophia met in Yosemite (he also has a shaved head, and consoled James and I a couple days ago about parting with our mops). In the couple of hours we’ve been here, Aidan Roberts, Katie Lamb, Hamish MacArthur, and Quinn Mason have walked in. Everyone and their mama is here. We’re going to do some more work, and then head to Majestic later today with a paddleboard, hopefully being more equipped to actually pull on to the boulder. Eli is going to join us after hiking the Chief.

I hope travelling back from Greece went smoothly and New Mexico is relaxing. I’ll keep you updated as our trip continues, although I think these blurbs are going to get longer and longer. My apologies. When I write, I yap.
