---
title: Meandering Squamish Thoughts
author: Levi Seegmiller
date: 2026-05-29T10:00:00Z
description: A peek into what all has been going down as of late. Musings on skin, head game, and climbing
tags:
  - travel
---


## Howdy Aidan,

I ran over a construction cone today. That’s not very important or pertinent to anything I’m about to write about, but it felt significant to me in the moment so I thought I’d start with it. 

As I’m typing this, Soph and Toinon are smearing their way up a slabby 5.10 multipitch, fulfilling Sophia’s goal of placing a cam (although a good chunk of the route is bolted). Since you might find the details interesting, I’ll try to recount what I overheard of their conversation last night as they organized their (reasonably sparse) pile of gear. The route is five pitches, the crux pitch being 5.10c, of slab climbing up the Apron, the sloping lower third of the Chief. Supposedly, the pro gets pretty run out, with the potential to take some hefty 10-15 meter whippers if you fall clipping your next piece. But it’s all slab, so it’s super chill. Super chill. Chill, chill, chill. 

The crux of the venture was securing a rack to use, but Toinon was able to snag one from Ethan Salvo. I say rack, but from what I could see, it was like four or five pieces, only one of which appearing to be able to fit into thinner cracks. What the two lack in gear and experience, however, they more than make up with stoke. They were psyched last night, and as far I could perceive through the early morning doldrums, were psyched this morning. I would be lying if I said I’m not a little bummed that I’m not up there with them, but I also can’t say that I want my first time climbing on gear to be a run-out slab. Besides, I’ve been able to use the time to shower for the first time in a week, run some errands, and write. 

A quick word of warning, I’m going into this piece with no preorganized thoughts, so I apologize if it feels like drifting the sea on a dinghy with no oars. But you’ve read my writing before, so you’re a veteran with such occurrences. To give you a fading map, I think I’ll first talk about skin, then some head game lessons I’ve been learning, and then finish up with a recap of what we’ve actually been climbing on.

I start with skin because it has been the bane of my existence the past few days. Squamish granite, similar to Little Cottonwood, is pebbly and rough, not too friendly on the fingers. After climbing four days on, my skin was begging for a rest day, and by the looks of it, likely two. So Saturday I went support mode, hauling pads, reading, and chatting, as Sophia and Soren (oh ya, Soren joined us for a couple of days!) did some mods. On Sunday, I reserved myself to climbing with tape because there was simply no way I was going to miss out on some of the stuff we were getting on. I taped up my two worst fingers, hoping they would be spared from the abrasiveness. Luckily, Soph gave me bomb taping beta, and I had the best time climbing with tape I’ve ever had, which isn’t necessarily saying much. I was able to get up a couple of things, but soon decided I should rest the skin some more, hoping to be able to climb hard on Monday.

Evidently, either two days wasn’t enough rest, or the climbing I did on Sunday did more damage than I thought, because climbing on Monday was grim. To be fair, the heat and humidity of the day did nothing to help my case, but the crimps I tried to pull on were not feeling good. I decided to rest for the rest of the day (a choice that is surprisingly easy to make in this beautiful area), and we went to support Soph on Room Service. I hydrated like a madman for the rest of the day, and have been ever since. I never realized that hydration aided in skin growth. Consequently, I’ve been a piss monster.

Now I’m looking at my skin with optimism. The dark pink patches I wore over the weekend have lightened and began to assimilate more with the skin on the rest of my fingers. But I’ve learned skin is a vital resource here, and I must use it with care. In a way, it’s making me more intentional with what I try and how I try it, which leads me to my next vague footpath: lessons in my mental game.

The New River Gorge was a big learning experience for me, showing me what bad mental and high expectations can do. Going into this trip, I was adamant not to repeat those same habits. I tried to keep my expectations as low as possible, just hoping to have a good time with my friends in a beautiful place and nothing else. And at first, I succeeded. We got on some amazing mods, I made some new friends, and I was enjoying the climbing. But as we started to try harder things, and Soph and James absolutely crushed them while I struggled, those debilitating, hateful voices began to spit their acidic bile. I didn’t understand why I couldn’t do the same things others could. I was frustrated that I would get so close to the send, but chuff when it mattered most. My mind was spiraling, and I didn’t like its plotted trajectory.

But I was still determined to not let my brain self-destruct the trip. Two things have been a big help: The Zen of Climbing and the guru advice of Soph and Toinon. Out of these sources, the biggest lesson I’ve learned is that focusing on trying to have a good process rather than trying to send is more beneficial ten times out of ten. Somehow, even though I’ve been climbing for almost four years now, that lesson hasn’t been aptly drilled into my mind. In fact, as I’ve progressed, I’ve increasingly forgotten it.

It makes sense, though. Sure, you can send something without a good process. You can muscle your way through a sequence every now and then, overcoming the difficulty of good technique. It won’t be pretty, but it’s possible. This option, however, won’t teach you anything about climbing, and it won’t work every time. That’s important. If you focus on having a good process, however, you will always learn something. You might not always send at first, but you will gain something from your experience. And the send will come eventually (although I’m increasingly subscribing to the belief that sending is the least important aspect of climbing).

This lesson might sound obvious to you or others reading, and it seems pretty obvious to me now, but it took time for me to truly appreciate it. Big thanks for letting me borrow that book and thanks to Soph and Toinon for so generously giving advice. 

(Also just a quick aside, my phone battery just turned green for the first time in like six days, woohoo)

This is getting pretty long now, but here’s a quick list of what we’ve been on (sends and no sends).

On Thursday, we went back to Majestic, this time toting a paddleboard that Roger borrowed from one of his friends. God, what a boulder. I honestly can’t think of a name that more perfectly represents its boulder than this one. The crew ran deep, too. We had me, James, Soph, Roger, Eli and his dad, and Soren (who arrived in town just that day). Getting ready to pull on, I was honestly a bit nervous. I’ve never climbed over water before. But after falling a few times, I chilled out and was able to meander to the top of it, although not without a heinous, near-chuff mantle. The lip is quite slopey and as I stepped my right foot onto it, my left foot, which was in a heel hook, slipped, and I nearly tumbled backwards into the water (which would have been the second time I did that). Luckily, I was able to maintain balance and sprinted to the top amid whoops and yells from those spectating, which helped mask my downright yelps of joy. It’s hard for me to recall a more exciting topout. Everyone else, bar Soren who was climbing just about blind without his glasses, was able to send, as well, contributing to a general feeling of jubilation.

The next day, Friday, was set aside for James to try the hard things he wanted before he had to fly home on Sunday. We warmed up on a fun V4 called Trad Killer and a picturesque V2, Heartbreak Hotel. We then made our way to Worm World Cave, a V9 and James’s chosen project. He flashed, and in amazing style. He is simply too strong for his own good. Sophia sent pretty fast, as well, leaving me and Soren to flail on the first move. I eventually found a cheeky toe hook method that allowed me to do the first move by making it into three moves, but at that point, I was powering out and couldn’t pull it all together for the send. This was the point of departure for my mental, as discussed earlier. Later, we went to a V5 called Viper that would make many V5s in Little Cottonwood look soft. It involved a hard cross to a left-hand pinch off of a glassy left foot and right-hand meatwrap. It was fun, but took about everything I had left.

The next day, Saturday, was my rest day, but that didn’t stop me from climbing a highball V0 called Summer Vacation that came recommended by Toinon. It was very fun and beautiful and thankfully doable in approach shoes. Soph and Soren toured around, doing a hard-looking V4 and a fucked V5 slab called Phat Slab.

The next day, Sunday, was my “rest day.” We warmed up on a cool V5 called The Hoop Wrangler, which mantle onto an adventurous slab, and then went to a V8 called The Rookie. Soph and James both flashed, and in amazing style. It took me a few more tries, and some much appreciated coaching from Toinon and Soph, but I was able to put it down in about six or seven goes. This one was very fun. (I realize that the more I use that word, the less value it holds, but I can’t think of anything better to use. And everything we’ve tried is, one way or another, ‘fun.’) You start on two slopers pretty high up (Soph had to jump) and campus to a slopey, right-hand crimp. You then get a high left heel near your left hand and suck in, locking off the right hand, to grab a good left-hand crimp. The crimp is good, but hard to latch if you’re falling away from the wall. I had to focus really hard on getting most of my weight and body over on that right hand while keeping the heel in my hand, which was prone to blow if left unattended. Then you sink left and come into a crimp to the right of your left hand. Then you crank on that right hand (which is worse than the left) to get a really good left hand jug before going out right to a pretty in-cut sloper thing and rocking over a high left foot to press up and mantle onto the top. The top of the boulder has a whole ecosystem, complete with a tree, a bed of moss, and ferns.

The next day, Toinon wanted to try a V13 called Offenders of the Faith and I wanted to try to stand, a V9 called Defender of the Faith, so trying to escape the heat, we woke up early and made our way. We did not escape the heat. Or the humidity. Condies were not prime. We left and went to a classic V4 called Easy in an Easy Chair and some nice slabby mods. Then we went to the Room so Soph could try Room Service, a V12 that you’ve probably heard of. She was getting really stuck and resolved that it wasn’t for her, but then had a major beta breakthrough and basically linked the entire boulder bar the first two moves. Wicked strong, wicked inspiring. She gave it a couple of ground rips, but was pretty cooked. We had to leave to take James to Vancouver, so we left it for another day. After Vancouver, we made some dinner with Toinon and slacklined for a while, sipping on Asahis and wine. It’s hard not to have the most pleasant time here.

And that’s everything caught up, climbing-wise. I’m still waiting for Soph and Toinon to get down from their multipitch, so I might go back to camp and read or slackline or something. A few more things to note quickly: there are robins everywhere here, we started a group journal that is slowly getting filled, even shitty showers can feel like the best thing ever when you’ve been deprived for a week, I’m loving the bald head life, I haven’t shaved in a while and you can tell (surprisingly), the mirror in the recreation center shower made me look jacked as hell, I’ve now taken three steps on the slackline (more than ever before), The Hero of Ages is GAS and Spook is becoming a favorite of mine, and we need to make a trip out here all together.

I hope your time in Los Alamos has been lovely! I saw that you took Emily sport climbing (maybe?). Very exciting. Can’t wait to hear about everything you’ve been thinking about.
